index.md, before:

---
layout: page
title: After Gracepoint
cover-img: https://i.imgur.com/TpoVjHb.jpg
---

### Who is this site for?

This site is for anyone seeking to learn more about Gracepoint.
It is particularly geared towards those thinking of leaving and those who have recently left.

### What is this site about?

If you’ve ever felt like something felt “off” at Gracepoint but couldn’t put your finger on it… this site is for you. This site exists to put words to those feelings. 

![](https://i.imgur.com/hvMVWqh.jpg)

### Mission Statement

Our goals are to:

1. Inform the public, especially current Gracepoint members, about the inner workings of Gracepoint that only fully reveal themselves after years of involvement.

2. Acknowledge and bring to light the stories of those who have been systemically hurt by Gracepoint.

3. Provide resources and a sense of community for those who have left and are putting their lives back together.

After hundreds of testimonies across multiple decades have surfaced, it has become clear that the issues we present go well beyond isolated events caused by individual bad actors.

We do not seek to "reform" the church. Our mission is simply to equip people, especially those who have been hurt, with information, resources, and community.

This site was created by former Gracepoint members and staff. We speak from years - and some from decades - of experience.

![](https://i.imgur.com/sYEhj4M.jpg)

### Contact Us

The best way to connect with former Gracepoint members is either via our Discord community ([https://discord.gg/shUNTVqKp8](https://discord.gg/shUNTVqKp8)) or via the reddit community at [/r/GracepointChurch](https://www.reddit.com/r/GracepointChurch/)

If you have inquiries specific to the website, please message one of the moderators on the Discord.

Commit message:

Workspace + minor tweaks, let's see if I'm doing this right again

index.md, after:

---
layout: page
title: After Gracepoint
cover-img: https://i.imgur.com/TpoVjHb.jpg
---

### Who is this site for?

This site is for anyone seeking to learn more about Gracepoint.
It is particularly geared towards those thinking of leaving and those who have recently left.

### What is this site about?

If you’ve ever felt like something felt “off” at Gracepoint but couldn’t put your finger on it… this site is for you. This site exists to put words to those feelings. 

![](https://i.imgur.com/hvMVWqh.jpg)

### Mission Statement

Our goals are to:

1. Inform the public, especially current Gracepoint members, about the inner workings of Gracepoint that only fully reveal themselves after years of involvement.

2. Acknowledge and bring to light the stories of those who have been systemically hurt by Gracepoint.

3. Provide resources and a sense of community for those who have left and are putting their lives back together.

After hundreds of testimonies across multiple decades have surfaced, it has become clear that the issues we present go well beyond isolated events caused by individual bad actors.

We do not seek to "reform" the church. Our mission is simply to equip people, especially those who have been hurt, with information, resources, and community.

This site was created by former Gracepoint members and staff. We speak from years - and some from decades - of experience.

![](https://i.imgur.com/sYEhj4M.jpg)

### Contact Us

If you want to connect with others, see the [Get Connected](get-connected.md) tab.
If you have feedback/ideas for this site, see the [After Gracepoint Feedback & Ideas](https://app.loopedin.io/after-gracepoint) board.
