questions-to-ask-yourself.md, before:

---
layout: page
title: Questions to ask yourself
cover-img: https://i.imgur.com/TpoVjHb.jpg
---

Making the decision of whether or not to leave a church is difficult. Almost every church experience is a mixed one, and the old adage is true: no church is perfect.

The goal of this page is not necessarily to convince you to leave Gracepoint. Rather, the goal is to help those uncertain about their decision to put words to their feelings and experiences, helping to give them confidence in their decision, whether that ends up being to remain at Gracepoint or to leave the organization.

If you are considering your future with Gracepoint, here are some questions to consider:

1. [Are you growing spiritually?](#are-you-growing-spiritually)
2. [Are you experiencing biblical leadership?](#are-you-experiencing-biblical-leadership)
3. [Are the values and practices of the church commendable?](#are-the-values-and-practices-of-the-church-commendable)
4. [Further reading](#further-reading)

# Are you growing spiritually?

Spiritual growth is an important indicator of your personal spiritual health and is a hallmark of a healthy spiritual community. As you reflect on your spiritual growth, past and present, consider the following:

- Are you increasing in your knowledge of the Word of God through messages and personal study? 
- Are you hearing from a diversity of resources and perspectives to broaden your understanding? 
- Another area to consider is your personal relationship with God. Do you feel that you have been growing in your connection with God, finding comfort, strength, and leading in Him?
- Perhaps the most important measure of spiritual growth is that established in Galatians 5, the fruit of the spirit: love, joy, peace, patience, kindness, goodness, faithfulness, gentleness, and self-control. Do you find that you are continuing to grow in these qualities, and see that growth being spurred in those around you? Are these qualities reflected in the lives of those who are leading and teaching you?

# Are you experiencing biblical leadership?

The bible provides significant instruction for leadership in the church. This is no surprise, as good leaders can help the body of Christ to flourish, and your relationship with your leader can directly influence your relationship with God.

- Has collaborating with your leader(s) been beneficial to your spiritual growth? 
- Do you find that your leaders are invested in your walk with God, providing accountability and spurring you on to greater steps of faith?
- Are you able to present your authentic self without fear, finding your leader(s) approachable even when you fail?
- Is your relationship one characterized by trust and mutual respect?
- Do you feel comfortable raising concerns to your leader?

# Are the values and practices of the church commendable?

Consider the priorities and values of the church, not just by what it reflected in the statement of values, but as evidenced by their ministry practices. 

- Are these values Christlike? 
- Is the church able to shift and adapt in response to the leading of the Holy Spirit?
- How does the church and its leadership respond to criticism, correction, and difficult truths? 
- Are the church's values the values you want to pass down to your children?

# Further reading

- [GP Top-Down Leadership Structure and Spiritual Abuse](https://www.reddit.com/r/GracepointChurch/comments/s8y8ks/gp_topdown_leadership_structure_and_spiritual/)
- [Why it sucks to be a woman at Gracepoint](https://www.reddit.com/r/GracepointChurch/comments/mm6u24/why_it_sucks_to_be_a_woman_at_gracepoint/)
- [A Note I Wrote for Myself](https://www.reddit.com/r/GracepointChurch/comments/xpvp71/a_note_i_wrote_for_myself/)
- [The GP 100](https://www.reddit.com/r/GracepointChurch/comments/w9fzcc/the_gp_100/)
- [Stephen & Oscar's Letter to Gracepoint Davis](https://www.reddit.com/r/GracepointChurch/comments/pj3s48/stephen_and_oscars_letter_leaving_gracepoint_davis/)
- [Pastor Ed's Letter to Becky (his former Pastor)](https://www.reddit.com/r/GracepointChurch/comments/nkbx1r/eds_letter_to_becky_2005_after_discussion_with/)
- [GP Under the Hood](https://www.reddit.com/r/GracepointChurch/comments/uiqcrk/gp_under_the_hood/)
- [Unpacking the guilt handbook](https://www.reddit.com/r/GracepointChurch/comments/x55gnw/unpacking_the_guilt_handbook/)
- More articles on the [/r/GracepointChurch wiki](https://www.reddit.com/r/GracepointChurch/wiki/analysis/)

Commit message:

how-to-leave-gracefully test

questions-to-ask-yourself.md, after:

---
layout: page
title: Questions to ask yourself
cover-img: https://i.imgur.com/TpoVjHb.jpg
---

Making the decision of whether or not to leave a church is difficult. Almost every church experience is a mixed one, and the old adage is true: no church is perfect.

The goal of this page is not necessarily to convince you to leave Gracepoint. Rather, the goal is to help those uncertain about their decision to put words to their feelings and experiences, helping to give them confidence in their decision, whether that ends up being to remain at Gracepoint or to leave the organization.

If you are considering your future with Gracepoint, here are some questions to consider:

1. [Are you growing spiritually?](#are-you-growing-spiritually)
2. [Are you experiencing biblical leadership?](#are-you-experiencing-biblical-leadership)
3. [Are the values and practices of the church commendable?](#are-the-values-and-practices-of-the-church-commendable)
4. [Further reading](#further-reading)

# Are you growing spiritually?

Spiritual growth is an important indicator of your personal spiritual health and is a hallmark of a healthy spiritual community. As you reflect on your spiritual growth, past and present, consider the following:

- Are you increasing in your knowledge of the Word of God through messages and personal study? 
- Are you hearing from a diversity of resources and perspectives to broaden your understanding? 
- Another area to consider is your personal relationship with God. Do you feel that you have been growing in your connection with God, finding comfort, strength, and leading in Him?
- Perhaps the most important measure of spiritual growth is that established in Galatians 5, the fruit of the spirit: love, joy, peace, patience, kindness, goodness, faithfulness, gentleness, and self-control. Do you find that you are continuing to grow in these qualities, and see that growth being spurred in those around you? Are these qualities reflected in the lives of those who are leading and teaching you?

# Are you experiencing biblical leadership?

The bible provides significant instruction for leadership in the church. This is no surprise, as good leaders can help the body of Christ to flourish, and your relationship with your leader can directly influence your relationship with God.

- Has collaborating with your leader(s) been beneficial to your spiritual growth? 
- Do you find that your leaders are invested in your walk with God, providing accountability and spurring you on to greater steps of faith?
- Are you able to present your authentic self without fear, finding your leader(s) approachable even when you fail?
- Is your relationship one characterized by trust and mutual respect?
- Do you feel comfortable raising concerns to your leader?

# Are the values and practices of the church commendable?

Consider the priorities and values of the church, not just by what it reflected in the statement of values, but as evidenced by their ministry practices. 

- Are these values Christlike? 
- Is the church able to shift and adapt in response to the leading of the Holy Spirit?
- How does the church and its leadership respond to criticism, correction, and difficult truths? 
- Are the church's values the values you want to pass down to your children?

If you reach the point where you think you want to leave Gracepoint, continue on to the next article: [How to leave gracefully](how-to-leave-gracefully.md)

# Further reading

- [GP Top-Down Leadership Structure and Spiritual Abuse](https://www.reddit.com/r/GracepointChurch/comments/s8y8ks/gp_topdown_leadership_structure_and_spiritual/)
- [Why it sucks to be a woman at Gracepoint](https://www.reddit.com/r/GracepointChurch/comments/mm6u24/why_it_sucks_to_be_a_woman_at_gracepoint/)
- [A Note I Wrote for Myself](https://www.reddit.com/r/GracepointChurch/comments/xpvp71/a_note_i_wrote_for_myself/)
- [The GP 100](https://www.reddit.com/r/GracepointChurch/comments/w9fzcc/the_gp_100/)
- [Stephen & Oscar's Letter to Gracepoint Davis](https://www.reddit.com/r/GracepointChurch/comments/pj3s48/stephen_and_oscars_letter_leaving_gracepoint_davis/)
- [Pastor Ed's Letter to Becky (his former Pastor)](https://www.reddit.com/r/GracepointChurch/comments/nkbx1r/eds_letter_to_becky_2005_after_discussion_with/)
- [GP Under the Hood](https://www.reddit.com/r/GracepointChurch/comments/uiqcrk/gp_under_the_hood/)
- [Unpacking the guilt handbook](https://www.reddit.com/r/GracepointChurch/comments/x55gnw/unpacking_the_guilt_handbook/)
- More articles on the [/r/GracepointChurch wiki](https://www.reddit.com/r/GracepointChurch/wiki/analysis/)
